From: Narrator <narrator@ancestor.es>
Date: Tue, 03 Feb 2015 12:00:00 +0200
Subject: [HELP][SCRIPT] The entire Darkest Dungeon script
Newsgroup: assistants.dungeon

Salutations,

# Intro cinematic

Ruin has come to our family. You remember our venerable house, opulent
and imperial. Gazing proudly from its stoic perch above the moor. I
lived all my years in that ancient, rumor-shadowed manor. Fattened by
decadence and luxury. And yet, I began to tire of conventional
extravagance. Singular, unsettling tales suggested the mansion itself
was a gateway to some fabulous and unnamable power. With relic and
ritual, I bent every effort towards the excavation and recovery of
those long-buried secrets, exhausting what remained of our family
fortune on swarthy workmen and sturdy shovels. At last, in the
salt-soaked crags beneath the lowest foundations we unearthed that
damnable portal of antediluvian evil. Our every step unsettled the
ancient earth but we were in a realm of death and madness! In the end,
I alone fled laughing and wailing through those blackened arcades of
antiquity. Until consciousness failed me. You remember our venerable
house, opulent and imperial. It is a festering abomination! I beg you,
return home, claim your birthright, and deliver our family from the
ravenous clutching shadows of the Darkest Dungeon.

# Tutorial lines

## Tutorial cinematic

You will arrive along the old road. It winds with a troubling,
serpent-like suggestion through the corrupted countryside. Leading
only, I fear, to ever more tenebrous places. There is a sickness in the
ancient pitted cobbles of the old road and on its writhing path you
will face viciousness, violence, and perhaps other damnably
transcendent terrors. So steel yourself and remember: there can be no
bravery without madness. The old road will take you to hell, but in
that gaping abyss we will find our redemption.

## Entering the Old Road

Brigands have run of these lanes. Keep to the side path; the Hamlet is
just ahead.

## Entering the first battle

Dispatch this thug in brutal fashion, that all may hear of your
arrival!

## Finding the first curio

Leave nothing unchecked, there is much to be found in forgotten places.

## Entering the second battle

An ambush! Send these vermin a message: the rightful owner has
returned, and their kind is no longer welcome.

## Entering the Hamlet for the first time

Welcome home, such as it is. This squalid hamlet, these corrupted
lands, they are yours now, and you are bound to them.

## Entering the "Embark" screen for the first time

This sprawling estate, a Mecca of madness and morbidity. Your work
begins...

## Entering the "provisions" screen for the first time

The cost of preparedness - measured now in gold, later in blood.

## Entering a building for the first time

### Stage Coach

Women and men; soldiers and outlaws; fools and corpses. All will find
their way to us now that the road is clear.

### Tavern

Fresh kegs, cards, and curtained rooms promise solace to the weary and
the broken alike.

### Abbey

The cobwebs have been dusted, the pews set straight. The Abbey calls to
the faithful...

### Blacksmith

The bellows blast once again! The forge stands ready to make weapons of
war.

### Guild

Make no mistake, we will face ever greater threats. Our soldiers must
be ready.

### Survivalist

At home in wild places, she is a stalwart survivor, and a strict
instructor.

### Nomad Wagon

Trinkets and charms, gathered from all the forgotten corners of the
earth...

### Graveyard

Most will end up here, covered in the poisoned earth, awaiting merciful
oblivion.

# Entering the hamlet


  the tavern.

  domain.

  letter.


  by decent folk.

  glimmer of hope.

  ...affected him.

  the condition of surrounding acres.

  must rely upon you to set it right.

  was dead before they found me, and the letter was on its way.

  be destroyed!

  damnation.

  affords you broad tolerance in your choice of means.



  madness.

  upon us all.

  dimension of delirium are tenuously thin here...

  mind. It was a yearning, a thirst for discovery that could be neither
  numbed, nor sated.

  transgressions.

  final, crowning thing. I could not look, nor could I look away!

# Upgrading buildings

## Stage Coach


  the damned.

  use this.

## Tavern


  threshold with coin in hand.


## Abbey


  bloodshed.


## Blacksmith


  life.


## Guild


  face.

  arithmetic of combat.

## Survivalist

  persist, and overcome.


  survive!

## Nomad Wagon


  against evil.

  places.

## Sanitarium

  the mind.

  sword cannot.

  soul.

# Recruiting heroes

## Abomination

Tortured and reclusive... this man is more dangerous than he seems...

## Antiquarian

She searches where others will not go... and sees what others will not
see.

## Arbalest

Shoot, bandage and pillage: the dancing steps of war.

## Bounty Hunter

The thrill of the hunt... The promise of payment...

## Crusader

A mighty sword-arm anchored by a holy purpose. A zealous warrior.

## Grave Robber

To those with a keen eye, gold gleams like a dagger's point.

## Hellion

Barbaric rage and unrelenting savagery make for a powerful ally.

## Highwayman

Elusive, evasive, persistent. Righteous traits for a rogue.

## Hound Master

A lawman and his faithful beast. A bond forged by battle and bloodshed.

## Jester

He will be laughing still... at the end.

## Leper

This man understands that adversity and existence are one and the same.

## Man-At-Arms

The raw strength of youth may be spent, but his eyes hold the secrets
of a hundred campaigns.

## Occultist

To fight the abyss, one must know it...

## Plague Doctor

What better laboratory than the blood-soaked battlefield?

## Vestal

A sister of battle. Pious and unrelenting.

## Musketeer

A champion markswoman keen for a new kind of challenge.

# Dismissing a hero from the roster





  who remain.

  stock.

  more good to us.


# Starting an expedition to kill a boss

## Ruins

### Prophet

1. Excavations beneath the manor were well underway, when a particular
   ragged indigent arrived in the hamlet. This filthy, toothless
   miscreant boasted an uncanny knowledge of my ambitions and
   prognosticated publicly that left unchecked, I would soon unleash
   doom upon the world.

1. This raving creature had to be silenced, but doing so proved
   maddeningly impossible. How had he survived the stockades, the icy
   waters, and the knives I delivered so enthusiastically into his
   back? How had he returned time and time again to rouse the townsfolk
   with his wild speculations and prophecies?

1. Finally, resigned to his uncommon corporeal resilience, I lured him
   to the dig. There, I showed him the Thing, and detailed the full
   extent of my plans. Triumphantly, I watched as he tore his eyes from
   their sockets, and ran shrieking into the shadows - wailing
   maniacally that the end was upon us all.

### Necromancer

1. Mastery over life and death was chief among my early pursuits. I
   began in humility, but my ambition was limitless. Who could have
   divined the prophetic import of something as unremarkable as a
   twitch in the leg of a dead rat?

1. I entertained a delegation of experts from overseas, eager to plumb
   the depths of their knowledge and share with them certain techniques
   and alchemical processes I had found to yield wondrous and
   terrifying results. Having learned all I could from my visiting
   guests, I murdered them as they slept.

1. I brought my colleagues back with much of their intellect intact, a
   remarkable triumph for even the most experienced necromancer. Freed
   from the trappings of their humanity, they plied their terrible
   trade anew - the dead reviving the dead, on and on down the years...
   forever.

## Weald

### Hag

1. I had collected many rare and elusive volumes on ancient herbal
   properties, and was set to enjoy several weeks immersed in
   comfortable study. My work was interrupted, however, by a singularly
   striking young woman who insisted on repeated calls to the house.

1. Her knowledge of horticulturalism, and its role in various arcane
   practices impressed me greatly. My licentious impulse gave way to a
   genuine, professional respect, and together, we began to plant,
   harvest, and brew.

1. As time wore on, her wild policy of self-experimentation grew
   intolerable. She quaffed all manner of strange fungii, herbs and
   concoctions, intent on gaining some insight into the horror we both
   knew to be growing beneath us. The change in her was appalling, and,
   no longer able to stomach it, I sent her to live in the Weald, where
   her wildness would be welcomed.

### Brigand Pounder

1. Simple folk are by their nature loquacious, and the denizens of the
   Hamlet were no exception. It was not long before rumors of my morbid
   genius and secretive excavations began to fuel local legend. In the
   face of my increasingly egregious flaunting of public taboos, awe
   turned to ire, and demonstrations were held in the town square.

1. The wild whispers of heresy roused the rabble to violent action.
   Such was the general air of rebellion that even my generous offer of
   gold to the local constabulary was rebuffed! To reassert my rule, I
   sought out unscrupulous men skilled in the application of force.
   Tight-lipped and terrifying, these mercenaries brought with them a
   war machine of terrible implication.

1. Eager to end the tiresome domestic distraction, I instructed my
   newly formed militia of hardened bandits, brigands and killers to go
   forth and do their work. Compliance and order were restored, and the
   noisome population of the Hamlet was culled to more... manageable
   numbers.

## Warrens

### Swine Prince

1. The ways and rituals of blood sacrifice are difficult to master.
   Those from beyond require a physical vessel if they are to make the
   crossing into our reality. The timing of the chants is imperative -
   without the proper utterances at precise intervals, the process can
   fail spectacularly.

1. My first attempts at summoning were crude and the results,
   disappointing. I soon found however, that the type and condition of
   the host's meat was a critical factor. The best results came from
   pigs, whose flesh is most like that of man.

1. The Great Thing I had managed to bring through was brutish and
stupid. Moreover, it required prodigious amounts of meat to sustain
itself, but this was only a trifling concern – after all, I had a
village full of it.

### Flesh

1. My zeal for blood rituals and summoning rites had begun to ebb as
   each attempt invariably brought only failure, and disappointment.
   Progress was halting, and the rapidly accumulating surplus of wasted
   flesh had become... burdensome.

1. I could not store such a prodigious amount of offal, nor could I rid
   myself of it easily, possessed as it was by unnameable things from
   outer spheres. When excavations beneath the Manor broke through into
   an ancient network of aqueducts and tunnels, I knew I had found a
   solution to the problem of disposal.

1. The spasmodically squirming, braying, and snorting half-corpses were
   heaped each upon the other until at last I was rid of them. The
   Warrens became a landfill of snout and hoof, gristle and bone – a
   mountainous, twitching mass of misshapen flesh fusing itself
   together in the darkness.

## Cove

### Siren

1. My lofty position wasn't always accompanied by the fear of office,
   and there was a time I could walk the streets or raise a glass in
   the tavern without concern for molestation. Faithful as the tide,
   one precocious village waif made it her hobby to shadow my every
   errand. It was charming then, troublesome later.

1. In financial desperation, I struck a bargain with the ancient things
   that surfaced in search of sacrifice when the moon was right. Their
   price was the delivery of an obscure idol and one other item of more
   troubling portent. The pact struck, my newfound accomplices slipped
   silently beneath the brackish water. A fearful stirring at the edge
   of the torchlight betrayed a familiar witness, and gifted me with
   malign inspiration.

1. Under the blood moon, I lured my wide-eyed prey to the pier’s edge.
   Before she could properly appreciate her position, I clamped on a
   manacle, chaining her to the leering idol. A small push was
   sufficient to send both into the icy waters. And when at length the
   tide receded, jewels of the most magnificent grandeur lay scattered
   upon the shore.

### Drowned Crew

1. Prying eyes had become a nuisance along the Old Road, and so I
   undertook to receive my most curious deliveries by way of marine
   shipments. A sheltered jetty was accessible by a narrow stone stair
   off the back of the manor, and a discreet system of pulleys could
   hoist even the heaviest prizes up the rock face from a securely tied
   dinghy below.

1. I employed a crew of particularly unsavory mariners, who, for a
   time, sailed the four corners at my behest - retrieving many
   valuable artifacts, relics and rare texts. Predictably, they
   increased their tariffs to counter my intense stipulations of
   secrecy. Such resources had long been exhausted, of course, and so I
   prepared an... alternative payment.

1. While the greedy dogs slept off their revelry, I hexed their anchor
   with every twisted incantation I could muster - imbuing it with the
   weight of my ambition, and my contempt for their crude extortion.
   At the witching hour, the anchor pulled with preternatural force,
   dragging craft and crew down into the depths. They must have cried
   out, but no sound escaped the swirling black waters...

# Entering the Ruins

## Explore mission

Pace out the halls of your lineage, once familiar, now foreign.

## Cleanse mission

The fiends must be driven back, and what better place to begin than the
seat of our noble line?

## Activate mission

Can the defiled be consecrated? Can the fallen find rest?

## Gather mission

There is power in symbols. Collect the scattered scraps of faith and
give comfort to the masses.

## boss mission against the Necromancer

A devil walks these halls... only the mad or the desperate go in
search of him.

## boss mission against the Prophet

The echoes of his mindless tittering reverberate maddeningly...

# Entering the Weald

## Explore mission

I knew all these paths once; now they are as twisted as my own
ambitions.

## Cleanse mission

Corruption has soaked the soil, sapping all good life from these groves

## Activate mission

Excise the fungal tumors and the land may yet live.

## Gather mission

Our land is remote and unneighbored. Every lost resource must be
recovered.

## boss mission against the Hag

There is method in the wild corruption here. It bears a form both
wretched and malevolent.

## boss mission against the Brigand Pounder

The smell of sulfur and gunpowder hangs in the air, the war machine is
close.

# Entering the Warrens

## Explore mission

To prosecute our war against the Swine, we must first scout their
squalid homes.

## Cleanse mission

They breed quickly down there in the dark, but perhaps we can slay them
even faster.

## Activate mission

The Swine draw power from their horrid markings and crude idols - tear
them down!

## Gather mission

Even the fiercest beast will lay down when it has not eaten. Steal
their food.

## boss mission against the Swine Prince

A nameless abomination, a testament to my failures - it must be
destroyed!

## boss mission against the Flesh

The thing is more terrible than I can describe - an incoherent jumble
of organ, sinew and bone.

# Entering the Coves

## Explore mission

The smell of rotting fish is almost unbearable...

## Cleanse mission

These salt-soaked caverns are teeming with pelagic nightmares - they
must be flushed out!

## Activate mission

The flopping, fish-like things abhore the warding sigils. Let us claim
this place anew!

## Gather mission

Recover these lost shipments of rarities, that we may prevent them from
falling into even less scrupulous hands...

## boss mission against the Siren

I always wondered what became of the unfortunate little waif...

## boss mission against the Drowned Crew

The poor devils, chained and drowning for eternity...

# Succeeding an expedition

## Ruins

### Explore

  to feel familiar.

  hold.

### Cleanse



### Activate



### Gather


  restored.

### boss (Prophet)

  dead.

  they are ridiculous.

### boss (Necromancer)


  finally fail?

## Weald

### Explore

  troubled estate.

  unharried!

### Cleanse

fought.


### Activate



### Gather

  struggling Hamlet.

  contagion.

### boss (Hag)

  will be eaten.


### boss (Brigand Pounder)

  headstones.

  strength!

## Warrens

### Explore



### Cleanse

  ending them.


### Activate


  such a thing were possible.

### Gather

  Swine will not.


### boss (Flesh)


  terrible existence.

### boss (Swine Prince)


  soon enough.

## Cove

### Explore

  traversable.

  tomb...

### Cleanse


  a thing.

### boss (Siren)

  place in the sane world!

  the routes are safe.

### boss (Drowned Crew)


  beyond the light's reach.

# Failing an expedition








  victory will come.

  accomplishment.

defeat.


# Encountering a boss

### The Necromancer

Towering, fierce, terrible. Nightmare made material!

### The Prophet

The madman hides there, behind the pews, spouting his mindless drivel!

### The Hag

Twisted and maniacal - a slathering testament to the powers of
corruption!

### The Brigand Pounder

A marvel of technology - an engine of destruction!

### The Swine Prince

It is a travesty - a blundering mountain of hatred and rage.

### The Flesh

Squirming, contorting and ever-expanding...this horror must be unmade!

### The Siren

The aquatic devils have remade the poor girl in their image! She is
their queen, and their slave!

### The Drowned Crew

Even in death, the captain shouts his orders, and the crew obeys...

# Encountering a mini-boss

## The Collector

### Encounter



### Victory



## The Shambler

### Encounter



### Victory



# Raising the Light Meter to 100


  follow it.


  clear.


# Light Meter dropping to 0



  gold."

  this place.


# Obtaining loot



  home.





# Camping




  horrors.


# Getting hit by a trap


  own eyes.







# Facing obstacles

### Finding an obstacle in the Ruins

Even the cold stone seems bent on preventing passage.

### Finding an obstacle in the Warrens

Such blockages are unsurprising – these tunnels predate even the
earliest settlers.

### Finding an obstacle in the Weald

Nature herself - a victim to this spreading corruption: malformed with
misintent.

### Finding an obstacle in the Cove

Another mariner... Another misfortune.

### Removing an obstacle without a shovel

Without tools of iron, you must rely on flesh and indefatigable purpose.

# Failing to satiate the party

the mind…





# Healing

## Receiving healing through skills and/or food





## Getting a critical hit when healing





## Healing while at Death's Door





# Killing an enemy

## Killing the first enemy






## Killing a weak enemy






## Killing an enemy with a strong attack






## Killing a large enemy



exsanguination be considered a virtue.



## Killing an enemy with blight or bleed





# Striking a critical hit










# Receiving a critical hit










# Receiving a Debuff





## Being inflicted Horror





# Receiving a Buff





# Having a hero reach Death's Door






# Having a hero receive the deathblow







# Winning a battle










# Filling your inventory





# Failing to retreat from a battle




# Retreating from a battle




# Having a hero reach 50% stress or health


# Gaining afflictions

### Generic affliction










### Abusive

Frustration and fury, more destructive than a hundred cannons.

### Fearful

Fear and frailty finally claim their due.

### Paranoid

The walls close in, the shadows whisper of conspiracy!

### Hopeless

There can be no hope in this hell, no hope at all.

### Selfish

Self-preservation is paramount - at any cost!

### Masochistic

Those who covet injury find it in no short supply.

### Irrational

Reeling, gasping, taken over the edge into madness!

# Gaining virtues

### Courageous

A moment of valor shines brightest against a backdrop of despair.

### Vigorous

Adversity can foster hope, and resilience.

### Focused

A moment of clarity in the eye of the storm...

### Powerful

Anger is power - unleash it!

### Stalwart

Many fall in the face of chaos; but not this one, not today.

Donjon-le-plus-sombre-ment,

-- 
Narrator
"Plague Doctor my beloved <3"
